README.md, before:

# pernosco-submit

Submits rr traces to Pernosco for debugging.

## Configuration

The following environment variables must be set:
* `PERNOSCO_USER`: User ID in email address form.
* `PERNOSCO_USER_SECRET_KEY`: Secret key. Be careful about sharing this.
* `PERNOSCO_GROUP`: Group to upload to, e.g. `public`. Influences who can access the trace and who gets billed.

The `openssl`, `tar`, `zstdmt` and `aws` tools must be installed. The best way to install `aws` is
```
sudo pip3 install awscli --upgrade
```
Ubuntu and Debian packages [can have issues](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/issues/2403).

You must use rr master, at least commit [6116360abd43b2098efcd8f37a6e6bab61ca7a79](https://github.com/mozilla/rr/commit/6116360abd43b2098efcd8f37a6e6bab61ca7a79).

## Usage

Run
```
pernosco-submit upload <rr-trace-dir> [<source-dir>...]
```
The rr trace directory will be packaged and uploaded. This may take a while and send many gigabytes of data to Amazon S3.

`pernosco-submit` scans the trace to identify relevant source files. For source files in git or Mercurial repositories that `pernosco-submit` knows about, whose plaintext source can be loaded from some Web server, `pernosco-submit` adds metadata to the upload so that the Pernosco client will load the source directly from that server. (We gladly accept <a href="https://github.com/Pernosco/pernosco-submit/pulls">pull requests</a> to extend that support.) For source files not in a supported repository (including files generated by the build), or modified locally, `pernosco-submit` will upload the file as part of the submission *only if* the file's `realpath` is under one of the listed `<source-dir>`s. This is to reduce the likelihood of `pernosco-submit` accidentally uploading confidental files. Thus, if you want locally modified and non-repository files to be available in the Pernosco client, you must whitelist directories containing them by passing them as `<source-dir>` parameters to `pernosco-submit`.

Commit message:

Document --title and --url parameters in the README

README.md, after:

# pernosco-submit

Submits rr traces to Pernosco for debugging.

## Configuration

The following environment variables must be set:
* `PERNOSCO_USER`: User ID in email address form.
* `PERNOSCO_USER_SECRET_KEY`: Secret key. Be careful about sharing this.
* `PERNOSCO_GROUP`: Group to upload to, e.g. `public`. Influences who can access the trace and who gets billed.

The `openssl`, `tar`, `zstdmt` and `aws` tools must be installed. The best way to install `aws` is
```
sudo pip3 install awscli --upgrade
```
Ubuntu and Debian packages [can have issues](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/issues/2403).

You must use rr master, at least commit [6116360abd43b2098efcd8f37a6e6bab61ca7a79](https://github.com/mozilla/rr/commit/6116360abd43b2098efcd8f37a6e6bab61ca7a79).

## Usage

Run
```
pernosco-submit upload [--title <string>] [--url <url>] <rr-trace-dir> [<source-dir>...]
```
The rr trace directory will be packaged and uploaded. This may take a while and send gigabytes of data to Amazon S3.

`pernosco-submit` scans the trace to identify relevant source files. For source files in git or Mercurial repositories that `pernosco-submit` knows about, whose plaintext source can be loaded from some Web server, `pernosco-submit` adds metadata to the upload so that the Pernosco client will load the source directly from that server. (We gladly accept <a href="https://github.com/Pernosco/pernosco-submit/pulls">pull requests</a> to extend that support.) For source files not in a supported repository (including files generated by the build), or modified locally, `pernosco-submit` will upload the file as part of the submission *only if* the file's `realpath` is under one of the listed `<source-dir>`s. This is to reduce the likelihood of `pernosco-submit` accidentally uploading confidental files. Thus, if you want locally modified and non-repository files to be available in the Pernosco client, you must whitelist directories containing them by passing them as `<source-dir>` parameters to `pernosco-submit`.

The `--title` option lets you specify a title for the upload. This title is quoted in notification emails from Pernosco, appears in the browser tab title for a Pernosco session, and appears in the top right of the Pernosco window. The `--url` option lets you specify a URL which the title text links to.
